Independent reader: public inputs, CPM, saved-policy reconstruction and training

Run commands from the extracted reader directory. This directory contains code,
compact public-input bindings, the original 220 CPM records, and all 1,540 base
and 220 extended candidate records in a flat evidence tree. No nested historical
archive needs to be extracted. No author controller, ledger, Git history or CI
receipt is required. Historical execution remains in the preceding supplement.

Environment
Use Python 3.12 or 3.13 and a separate virtual environment. The recorded CPM
libraries were NumPy 2.3.5, SciPy 1.16.1, scikit-learn 1.7.1 and PyTorch 2.9.1
with CUDA 12.8; all CPM operations themselves run on CPU with one thread.
Install the CPU PyTorch build, then the other direct dependencies:

python -m pip install torch==2.9.1 --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cpu
python -m pip install -r requirements-reader.txt

Use a platform-appropriate PyTorch 2.9.1 CUDA build for optional GPU training.
The output records retain the versions actually used. A library change may alter
floating-point results; it must not silently relax a published tensor binding.

1. Reconstruct all saved policies (no training or raw downloads)

python scripts/reader_reproduce.py score --evidence-root evidence --output run/scores.json

This selects candidates again from the 1,760 candidate records, reconstructs the
original 112 fixed/calibrated CPM policy cells, and compares every retained field
within absolute tolerance 1e-12. It also reports 16 always-MLP reference cells and
per-dataset CPM score ranges, endpoint counts and numbers of distinct scores.
LODO thresholds are recomputed only from the declared other-dataset outcomes.

2. Reproduce the preselected Cora, seed 0 CPM example from public raw files

python scripts/reader_reproduce.py acquire --dataset Cora --seed 0 --data-root run/data --output run/acquisition.json
python scripts/reader_reproduce.py probe --dataset Cora --seed 0 --data-root run/data --evidence-root evidence --output run/probe.json

Start with an empty run/data directory for the independent acquisition check.
Acquisition downloads only the published upstream raw files, verifies their byte
counts and SHA256, and invokes the original PyG loader settings. Dataset source
licenses continue to apply. The tensor hash includes dtype, shape and C-order
bytes, so cross-version PyG pickle serialization is not the acceptance criterion.
Raw features, labels, canonical edges, all three regenerated seed-0 partitions,
the split identifier, and both N/CS transformed feature arrays must match their
published bindings before fitting. The probe receives outer-training labels only.
Both input conditions use 100 paired inner holdouts (400 GNB fits total).
Only after computing them does the command open retained candidate outcomes.
It verifies the two accuracy sequences, partitions, scores and means against the
retained metric fields at absolute tolerance 1e-12, then records the fixed-policy
score in every matching portfolio/budget cell. Failure is reported, not replaced
by an old output. Other published datasets and seeds can be specified explicitly.
Large graphs require more RAM and time; their successful replay is not implied
by the Cora example.

3. Optional new neural training from the same public inputs

python scripts/reader_reproduce.py train --dataset Cora --seed 0 --condition normalize_features --model GCN --trials 4 --data-root run/data --output run/gcn.json
python scripts/reader_reproduce.py train --dataset Cora --seed 0 --condition normalize_centered_scaled --model MLP --trials 24 --data-root run/data --output run/mlp24.json

The first command runs the published four-trial grid; the second runs all 24 MLP
candidates afresh, including the four originally inherited candidates. It does
not claim access to or reuse of author checkpoints. Hidden width, early stopping,
learning rates, dropout and weight decay come from the delivered configurations.
Validation alone selects the trial; the selected model has one test evaluation.
All new checkpoints and trial histories are retained beside the new record.
The seven published architectures are supported at four trials; 24 is MLP-only.
Use --device cuda for GPU training. Default CPU execution uses one thread.
Numerical training equality is not an acceptance promise: the original LINKX
audit found substantial same-condition variability. Keep new outcomes separate
from the published benchmark; report their distributions when studying training
repeatability. The reconstruction check does not certify all neural retraining.

4. Reconstruct the review-motivated influence and source-group analysis

python scripts/reviewer_source_sensitivity.py --evidence-root evidence --published-metrics evidence/review-sensitivity/published-metrics.json --matched-reference evidence/review-sensitivity/matched-reference.json --protocol configs/reviewer_influence_source_groups_v1.json --scope-receipt evidence/review-sensitivity/SCOPE_BEFORE_EXECUTION.json --output run/source-groups.json

This standard-library analysis performs no model fitting. It verifies the input
scope hashes, reselects candidates from all 1,760 records, and reconstructs all
528 original matched LODO folds before computing 192 influence scenarios (768
fixed-policy evaluations) and 288 source-group folds. The retained results keep
every training input, candidate cutoff/loss, selected cutoff and held-out action.
The grouping was fixed before these computations, after the earlier concentration
findings were known; it is a review-motivated post-hoc sensitivity, not study
preregistration. Overall averages weight datasets equally, not source groups.

5. Reproduce the WebKB class-support audit without fitting a classifier

python scripts/cpm_partition_support.py --public-data-root run/support-data --download --datasets Cornell Wisconsin --binding configs/reader_data_bindings_v1.json --cpm evidence/cpm-extension.json --output run/webkb-support.json

The command downloads checksum-bound public raw files, regenerates all ten
training splits, replays the saved random partitions and verifies sizes/hashes
against both conditions. It counts every class in every sample, fit and holdout.
Remove --datasets Cornell Wisconsin to audit all eleven public datasets. The
retained full audit verifies 220 condition records using bound arrays; the
completed independent public-input audit covers the 40 WebKB condition records.
Neither command fits a GNB or neural model. Each WebKB inner holdout excludes
two classes under the unchanged equal-quota rule; the resulting probe accuracy
must be interpreted for its realized holdout class distribution.

6. Export the complete sensitivity CSVs and manuscript tables

python scripts/export_reviewer_sensitivity.py --analysis run/source-groups.json --support evidence/review-sensitivity/partition-support.json --primary evidence/review-sensitivity/primary-audit.json --output run/tables

The primary eight-comparison effects, intervals and p values are read from the
frozen audit. Only the nonzero-dataset counts are reconstructed; no new inference
is fitted. All omission policies, 48 group-calibration summaries, 288 fold
summaries, and 176 CPM dataset accounting rows are exported without selection.

All output files are exclusive. Choose a new output path for a new attempt.
A changed public raw file or tensor binding stops the process. MANIFEST.json
contains SHA256 and size for each delivered reader file; source revisions and
the upstream binding/transform digests are in configs/reader_data_bindings_v1.json.
